When stuendts graduate and first enter the workforce, the most common choice is to find an entry-
level position. This can be a job such as an unpaid internship, an assistant, a secretary, or a junior
partner position. Traditionally, we start with simpler jobs and work our way up. Yong professionals 
start out with a plan to become senior partners, associates, or even managers of a workplace. However,
these promotions can be few and far between, leaving many young professionals unfamiliar with
management experience. An important step is understanding the role and responsibilities of a person
in a managing position. Managers are organisational members who are responsible for the work per-
formance of other organisational members. Managers have formal authority to use organisational 
resources and to make decisions. Managers at different levels of the organisation engage in different 
amounts of time on the four managerial functions of planning, organising, leading, and controlling.

However, as many professionals already know, managing styles can be very different depending on
where you work. Some managing styles are strictly hierarchical. Other managing styles can be more 
casual and relaxed, where the manager may act more like a team member rather than a strict boss.
Many researchers have created a more scientific approach in studying these different approaches to 
managing. In the 1960s, researcher Henry Mintzberg created a seminal organisational model using
nated as interpersonal, informational and decisional.

Introduced Category 1: INTERPERSONAL ROLES. Interpersonal roles require managers to direct
and supervise employees and the organisation. The figurehead is typically a top of middle manager.
This manager may communicate future organisational goals or ethical guidelines to employees at 
companny mettings. They also attend ribbon-cutting ceremonies, host receptions, presentations and 
other activities assoceiated with the figurehead role. A leader acts as an example forother employee
support. THey are also responsible for the selection and training of employes. Managers must be
leaders at all levels of the organisation; often lower-level managers look to top management for this
leadership example. In the role of liaision, a manager must coordinate the work of others in different
work units, establish alliances between others, and work to share resources. This role is particularly
critical for middle managers, who must often compete with other managers for important resources,
yet must maintain successful working relationships with them for long time periods.

Introduced Category 2: INFORMATIONAL ROLES. Informational roles are those in which man-
agers obtain and transmit information. These roles have changed dramatically as technology has
improved. The monitor evaluates the performance of others and takes corrective action to improve
that performance. Monitors also watch for changes in the environment and within the company that
may affect individual and organisational performance. Monitoring occurs at all levels of manage-
ment. The role of disseminator requires that managers inform employees of changes that affect
them and the organisation. They also communicate the compan's vision and purpose.

Introduced Category 3: DECISIONALROLES. Decisional roles require manager to plan strategy
and utilise resources. There are four specific roles that are decisional. The entrepreneur role requires
the manager to assign resources to develop innovative goods and services, or to expand a business.
The disturbance handler corrects unanticipated problems facing the organisation from the internal
or external environment. The third decisional role, that of resource allocator, involves determining
which work units will get which resources. Top managers are likely to make large, overall budget
decisions, while middle managers may make more specific allocations. Finally, the negotiator
works with others, such as suppliers, distributors, or labor unions, to reach agreements regarding
products and services.

Although Mintzberg's initial research in 1960s helped categorise manager approaches, Minzberg
was still concerned about research involving other roles in teh workplace. Minstzberg considered
expanding his research to other roles, such as teh role of disseminator, figurehead, liaison and 
spokesperson. Each role would have different special characteristics, and a new categorisation
system would have to be made for each role to understand it properly.

While Mintzberg's initial research was helpful in starting the conversation, there has since been
criticism of his methods from other researchers. Some criticisms of the the work were that een though
there were multiple categories, the role of manager is still more complex. There are still many
manager roles that are not as traditional and are not captured in Mintzberg's original three catego-
ries. In addition, sometimes, Mintzberg's research was not always effective. The research, when 
applied to real-life situations, did not always improve the management process in real-life practice.

These two criticisms against Mintzberg's research method raised some questions about whether or 
not the research was useful to how we understand "managers" in today's world. However, even if 
the criticisms against Mintzberg's work are true, it does not mean that the original research from 
the 1960s is completely useless. Those researchers did not say Mintzberg's research is invalid. His
research has two positive functions to the further research.

The first positive function is Minzerg provided a useful functional approach to analyse management.
And he used this approach to proveide a clear concept of the roel of manager to the researcher. When 
researching human behavior, it is important to be concise about the subject of the research. Mintz-
berg's research has helped other resarchers clearly define what a "manager" is, because in real-life
situations, teh "manager" is not always the same position title. Mintzberg's definitions added clarity
and precision to future research on the topic.

The second positive function is Mintzberg's research could be regarded as a good beginning to give 
a new insight to further research on this field in the future. Scientific research is always a gradual
process. Just because Mintzberg's initial research had certain flaws, does not mean it is useless to 
other researchers. Researchers who are interested in studying the workplace in a systematic way
have older research to look back on. A researcher doesn't have to start from the very beginning-
older research like Mintzberg's have shown what methods work well and what methods are not 
as approproate for workplace dynamics. As more young prfessionals enter the job market, this 
research will continue to study and change the way we think about the modern workplace. 